1. define OS
A) An operating system (OS) is the program that, after being initially 
loaded into the computer by a boot program, manages all of the other 
application programs in a computer.

2. what are schedulers ?
A) Schedulers are special system software which handle process scheduling 
in various ways. Their main task is to select the jobs to be submitted
into the system and to decide which process to run.

3. what is scheduling criteria ?
A) CPU utilisation, throughput, Turn arounf time, waiting time

4. scheduling algs
A) fcfs, sjf, priority, SRT, RR, multi-level queues, etc.

5. preemp and non-preemp differences
A) In preemptive, the CPU is allocated to the processes for a 
limited time whereas, in Non-preemptive, the CPU is allocated 
to the process till it terminates or switches to the waiting state.

6. shared mem and message passing differences
A) shmem: used for communication between single processor and 
multiprocessor systems where the processes that are to be communicated 
present on the same machine and they are sharing common address space.
speed: fast

msg passing: It is used in distributed environments where the 
communicating processes are present on remote machines which are 
connected with the help of a network. speed: slow

7. diff types of functions used in shared mem and message passing
(explain about parameters)
A) shmat: attaches the shared memory segment associated with the shared 
memory identifier, shmid, to the address space of the calling process.
shmget: returns the shared memory identifier associated with key.
msgget: The msgget() system call returns the message 
queue identifier associated with the value of the key argument.
The msgsnd() and msgrcv() system calls are used, respectively, to send
messages to, and receive messages from, a message queue. The calling
process must have write permission on the message queue in order to
send a message, and read permission to receive a message.

8. explain about AT, BT, FT, WT and TAT(with formulae)
A) Arrival Time: Time at which the process arrives in the ready queue.
Burst Time: Time required by a process for CPU execution.
Completion Time: Time at which process completes its execution.
Waiting Time(TAT-BT): total time spent by the process in the ready state
waiting for CPU
Turn Around Time(FT-AT): total time it takes for a program to provide
the required output to the user after the program is started

9. explain need of IPC.
A) IPC in OS obtains modularity, computational speedup and data sharing. 
Different ways of IPC are pipe, message passing, message queue, shared 
memory, direct communication, indirect communication and FIFO. It is 
important to obtain synchronization among processes in IPC to maintain 
data consistency.

10. diff bw independent and cooperative process
A) any process that does not share any data with any other process is 
independent. A process is said to be cooperating if it can affect or be 
affected by the other processes executing in the system.

11. diff types of os services
A) Program execution, I/O operations, File System manipulation, 
Communication, Error Detection, Resource Allocation, Protection

12. diff types of process operations
A) creation, scheduling, blocking, preemption, termination

13. diff bw wait() and wait_pid()
A) Wait() waits for any child process but waitpid() waits for a specific 
child equal to pid. By default waitpid() waits for the only terminated 
child where as wait() waits for both terminated or a signaled child.

14. expalin about dual mode.
A) Dual Mode in OS is the switching of modes between the two modes and 
switching of mode by the OS for computation of process by system. Dual 
Mode is responsible for the management of processes and avoiding any 
system crashes. Every system works on operations mainly in two modes to 
safeguard hardware’s computation.
The two modes are − User Mode and Kernel Mode

15. diff bw kernel and os
A) Operating system is a system software. Kernel is a part of operating 
system. Operating system acts as an interface between user and hardware. 
Kernel acts as an interface between applications and hardware

---------------

1. write and read system calls
A) write() can be used to write to any file (all hardware are also 
referred as file in Linux) in the system but rather than specifying the 
file name, you need to specify its file descriptor.read() will read the 
data from file pointed to by file descriptor. The use of read() system 
call is to read from a file descriptor.

2. fork system call
A) Fork system call is used for creating a new process, which is called 
child process, which runs concurrently with the process that makes the 
fork() call (parent process). After a new child process is created, 
both processes will execute the next instruction following the fork() 
system call.

3. what is a pipe ? its types
A) A pipe is an important mechanism in Unix-based systems that allows 
us to communicate data from one process to another without storing 
anything on the disk. In Linux, we have two types of pipes: pipes (also 
known as anonymous or unnamed pipes) and FIFO's (also known as named 
pipes)

4. shared memory
A) shared memory is memory that may be simultaneously accessed by 
multiple programs with an intent to provide communication among them or 
avoid redundant copies. Shared memory is an efficient means of passing 
data between programs.

5. use of shmid, shmat
A) shared memory identifier(shmid): t is used to identify or refer to 
the associated data structure. This identifier is accessible by any 
process in the system, subject to normal access restrictions.

shared memory attach operation(shmat): The shmat() function attaches to 
the shared memory segment specified by shmid and returns the address of 
the shared memory segment.

6. message queue
A) A message queue is a linked list of messages stored within the 
kernel and identified by a message queue identifier. A new queue is 
created or an existing queue opened by msgget(). New messages are added 
to the end of a queue by msgsnd().

7. functions of OS
A) security, error detection, memory management, processor management, 
device management, files management, job accounting, control over system performance, etc.

8. starvation : the problem that occurs when high priority processes 
keep executing and low priority processes get blocked for indefinite 
time

9. Aging : technique of gradually increasing the priority of 
processes that wait in the system for a long time.

10. paging: Paging is a memory management scheme that eliminates the need 
for contiguous allocation of physical memory. 

11. bootstrap: technique by which simple computer program activates a 
system of programs.

12. named and unnames pipes diff: named pipes are bidirectional means 
same FIFO can be read from as well as written into. Unnamed are 
unidirectional. Named pipes stay even after process termination whereas 
unnamed pipes vanished after termination.

13. disk scheduling algo: Disk scheduling is done by operating systems to 
schedule I/O requests arriving for the disk. Disk scheduling is also 
known as I/O scheduling. 
Algs: FCFS, SSTF(best), SCAN, CSCAN, LOOK, CLOOK

14. segmentation: memory management technique in which the memory is 
divided into the variable size parts. Each part is known as a segment 
which can be allocated to a process.

15. virtual memory: Virtual Memory is a storage allocation scheme in 
which secondary memory can be addressed as though it were part of the 
main memory.

16. explain Round Robin alg: used to schedule the process fairly for each 
job a time slot or quantum and the interrupting the job if it is not 
completed by then the job come after the other job which is arrived in 
the quantum time that makes these scheduling fairly. it is cyclic, so no 
starvation occurs.

17. Inter Process communication: the mechanisms an operating system 
provides to allow the processes to manage shared data. two types:
shared memory(fast, Since there is no need to copy data to share to 
other process) and message queue(slow)

18. advantages of IPC: information sharing, modularity, computational speedup, convenience

19. zombie process: process that has completed execution (via the exit 
system call) but still has an entry in the process table: it is a 
process in the "Terminated state".

20. diff bw process and thread: process is program in execution, it 
takes more time for creation, termination, context switching and less 
efficient in terms of execution time. thread is a lightweight process 
that can be created and terminated very fast and it also faster in 
context switching.

21. semaphore: Semaphores are integer variables that are used to solve 
the critical section problem by using two atomic operations, wait and 
signal functions. two types: binary(0 or 1) and counting(other than 0).

22. process synchronisation: the way by which processes that share the 
same memory space are managed in an operating system.

23. race condition : occurs when two threads access a shared variable 
at the same time. The first thread reads the variable, and the second 
thread reads the same value from the variable.

24. deadlock: a situation in which more than one process is blocked 
because it is holding a resource and also requires some resource that 
is acquired by some other process. 

25. methods of handling deadlock: prevention, avoidance, detection, recovery

26. prevention: 4 conditions: mutual exclusion, hold and wait, no 
preemption, circular wait.
27. avoidance: RAG and bankers alg
28. RAG: RAG is a directed graph which can be used to represent the 
state of a system in the form of picture.
29. banker's alg: used to avoid deadlock and allocate resources safely 
to each process in the computer system.

30. wait for graph: directed graph used for deadlock detection in operating systems and relational database systems.

31. deadlock recovery: process termination and resource preemption
32. preemp and non-preemp differences : In preemptive, the CPU is 
allocated to the processes for a  limited time whereas, in 
Non-preemptive, the CPU is allocated to the process till it terminates 
or switches to the waiting state.

33. logical vs physical address: Logical address is generated by CPU in 
perspective of a program whereas the physical address is a location 
that exists in the memory unit. 

34. contiguous memory: system assigns consecutive memory blocks (memory blocks having consecutive addresses) to a process.

35. fragmentation: As processes are loaded and removed from memory, the 
free memory space is broken into little pieces. It happens after 
sometimes that processes cannot be allocated to memory blocks 
considering their small size and memory blocks remains unused. This 
problem is known as Fragmentation.

36. internal vs external fragmentation: Internal Fragmentation occurs 
when a process needs more space than the size of allotted memory block 
or use less space. External Fragmentation occurs when a process is 
removed from the main memory.

37. first, best and worst fits: first fit approach is to allocate the 
first free partition or hole large enough which can accommodate the 
process. 
best fit deals with allocating the smallest free partition which meets 
the requirement of the requesting process. This algorithm first 
searches the entire list of free partitions and considers the smallest 
hole that is adequate.
worst fit approach is to locate largest available free portion so that 
the portion left will be big enough to be useful. It is the reverse of 
best fit.

38. A process control block (PCB) is a data structure used by computer 
operating systems to store all the information about a process.

39. page fault: A page fault is an interruption that occurs when a 
software program attempts to access a memory block not currently stored 
in the system's RAM. 

40. page replacement algos: FIFO(best for small systems), optimal(least page faults), LRU(replace page that will not be used for long time)

41. free space mgmt: The system keeps tracks of the free disk blocks 
for allocating space to files when they are created. 4 types: bit 
vector, linkedlist, grouping, counting
